DM-27514: Add documentation on Travis-to-GHA transition. (#452)
lsst-dm/dm_dev_guide: stack/moving-to-github-actions.rst

####################################
Moving to GitHub Actions from Travis
####################################

> GitHub Actions execute faster and more reliably than Travis scripts, so we are converting existing repositories to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub Actions execute faster and more reliably than Travis jobs, so we are converting existing repositories to use them.
```

#. Select ``.travis.yml``
#. Select the "trash can" icon to delete this file.
#. Add a commit comment such as "Remove Travis workflow." and choose a branch name.
   This branch name doesn't need to follow our ``tickets/`` convention; ``u/{user}/remove-travis`` is adequate.
#. Commit the change, create a pull request, and merge it.
#. Select the "Actions" tab between "Pull Requests" and "Projects" at the top of the GitHub page.
#. Choose the "LSST DM Python lint Workflow" and click on "Set up this workflow".
#. Choose "Start commit".
#. Add a commit comment such as "Add Python lint workflow." and choose a branch name.
   Again, something like ``u/{user}/add-lint-workflow`` is sufficient as a branch name.
#. Commit the change, create a pull request, and merge it.
#. Update the repository settings using :ref:`the procedure below <github-actions-settings>`.

.. _github-actions-command-line:

Command line
============

#. Clone the repository you are transitioning from ``git@github.com:lsst/{repo}``.
#. Create a branch: ``git checkout -b u/{user}/migrate-to-gha``
#. ``git rm .travis.yml``
#. ``mkdir -p .github/workflows; cd .github/workflows``

> #. ``curl -LO https://lsst/.github/template-workflows/lint.yaml``

Reviewer: Should this be a link to the templates repository?

Author: It is unfortunate that there are multiple sources of truth, but I think I'd prefer that `templates` grab from `.github` than the other way around.

Reviewer: Ah, ideally the stack_package template's SConscript file should get downloading the `link.yaml` from the `.github` repository.

But more to the point, this URL is missing the domain? Should be https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lsst/.github/master/workflow-templates/lint.yaml ?

Author: Doh.  Yes, thanks for catching that.

#. ``git add lint.yaml``
#. ``git commit`` and add a commit message such as "Migrate from Travis to GitHub Actions."
#. ``git push -u origin u/{user}/migrate-to-gha``
#. Create a pull request and merge it.
#. Update the repository settings using :ref:`the procedure below <github-actions-settings>`.

.. _github-actions-settings:

Settings changes
================

#. Go to the Settings page of the repository.
   This may be under the right-side "..." menu depending on your window width.
#. Choose "Branches" in the left sidebar.
#. Under "Branch protection rules", click "Edit" next to branch "master".

> #. Under "Requre branches to be up to date before merging", uncheck amy status checks that contain "travis-ci".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Under "Require branches to be up to date before merging", uncheck any status checks that contain "travis-ci".
```

Reviewer 2: @andy-slac asked about the travis webhooks -- I assume we ignore them?

Reviewer: When I've moved projects I haven't gone out of my way to delete those webhooks; Travis seems to ignore any webhook event for repos that don't have a `.travis.yml`. I'd only worry about it if you want really tidy repo settings.
